mro-2 or (Ἃϊο. xxiii

that romain, we are saie in concluding that, if
complete, it would be invaluable in throw·
ing light on doubtful points of early Roman
history. We possess, however, the De Re Rus- 'ffflfflfth
tric«, though in an abridged form. It is a sort
of “ Farm Book,'’ giving instruction in all mat-
* ters connected with agriculture. Many Latin
writers composed works on the same subject ;
these are thus enumerated by Columella 2-

“ Cato was tho first who taught the art of agri- ἵὲιῑιιζιιῧῑιιιιιιιψ

 

brOdUOffiOU . culture to speak in Latin : after him it was im-
is views iu proved by the two Sasernae, father and son3
ige.¹ His next it acquired eloquence from Scrofa. Tremel·

uacterized lius; polish from M. Terentius Varro; poetic
led at the V power from Virgil.” To these he adds Julius

of Rome, Hygin11S‚ Mago (the Karthaginien), Cornelius
udor, he is “ Celsus, Julius Atticus and Julius Gracinus.
r that date ‘ Cato also wrote works on medicine. His Com-
leudam esse ‹mentm-ius quo medetur Filio, Servis, Familiari- caton-⁵ ..un-r
85 aGOOI'd· '. ms is a sort of “ Hand-Book '' on the cures of works.
ceording 1²0 ›rdinary diseases. The Carmen de Morbis, a

· oetical charm to avert diseases, is noted only

nse wfiting, Χ or its unintelligible contente. He wrote also

His chief . work, Ἀποφθέγματα, or collection of “witti-
torical and , isms.'' We have the titles of about 90 orations
en Books. , elivered by him, but he is said to have com-
eriod ; the osed upwards of 150. The fragments of these Speeches.
the Italian re in an earnest, abrupt, concise and witty
'unic War3 yle. The personal appearance of the censor

   
     
  
   

  
     
     
   

: 3 the last· - presented to us in the following epitaph ε·-
he year 157 ’Πὺῥρην, πανδακέτην, γλαυκόμματον, οὐδὲ θανόντα
n impel'fect ⁸ Πόρκιον, εἰς Ἀ’ἱὸην Περσεφόνη δέχεται. {affixam

υ fragments

ith his red hair, his coustant snarl, and grey eyes,
⁴ oslmrine would not receive Porcius into nudes, even after
(laath. ’

 

 

