nores-cmv. xiv. g «16.

hence the room where the feast was held was called
triclinium (τρεῖς κλίναι). The couches were arranged as
in the annexed figure,
and were called by ..-.-...-..-.-
the names, summus ι 3 Ι 1 Ι 2 J
lectas, medius lectus, —-—-———-
imus lectus. T here

were generally three ----- --
guests on each
conch, according to
the custom that at a
feast there should
never be fewer than

Medius lectus.

(οὐ
Mensa. *-·
10

Imus lectus.
3 Ι 1 Ι ‘2

'SOU-7³1 ΗΙΗΙΙ Hills

the number ofGraees, -— -——
or more than that of the Muses. The places of each
were styled medius locus (1), summus locus (2), imus
locus (3). The cup circulated and the conversation
began from the summas locus of the summus lectam.
-α summo z ab eo qui summum lectum habet.

‘’sicutest: “as we find it.” The symposium, or ‘ Banquet'
of the philosophers‚ gives an account of a feast
given by Callias to Socrates aud other Athenians. The
piece is interesting as delineating the character of
Socrates. The passage referred to is Xen, Symp. 2.
<zo—minuta, here = parva: cp. μικραὶ κί’λικες of
Xenophon—rorantia, “stinted'' ε literally “be-
sprinkling.’' ·

mec-hibernus: “and the means of cooling (the wine)
in summer and again in winter the warmth either of
the sun or of a fire.'' The Romans used various
methods of cooling the wines in summer. Snow (nix)
was osten put into the vessel (crater) where the wine
and water were mixed or the wine was often strained
through :ke snOW. They also put ice enclosed in a
vessel (psylcter) into the mixer. In winter the Romans
drank a hot drink called calida or calda, which con·
sisted of warrn water mixed with wine and spiceS.
These were mixed and kept in a vessel resembling our
modern tea urn, with a small fumace in the middle.

“quae ·-„et wil—eseiam in Sabinis :eg esven lon my §alwine
tscitiiiii’liciiysr ‹t2f enalanrgs-vgggejggffim—gmtpgg² 13plmdiiliiss
make up a party composed of my neighbours·'' Corssen
1, p. 175, says, the spelling of cottidie is older and
better established than cotidie: sor quotidie, there is

 

