No'rEs—CHAP. xlv. [ἓ 48-§ 49.

‘Turpione Ambivio, i.e., Ambivio Turpione. When the
praenomen is omitted, the cogynomen is osten placed
before the nomen, as in the letters of Cicero. So also in
Hor. Od. II. 2, 2: Crispe Sallusti. We find from the
prefaces (inscriptiones) to the plays os Terence, that
most of thern were acted by L. Ambivius Turpio.—
magns delectatur: “takts more delight in‚'' not “is
more delighted by,''

Qui—spectat: “who is a spectator on the first row of
benches.'' The part of a theatre occupied by the
spectators was called cavea by the Romans, κοῖλον by
the Greeks, probably because they took advantage
of the natural site of a hill and formed rude seats
by hollowing out the rock or earth. In later times
theatres were formed with semicircular concentric
rows, rising one above the other, the stage forming
the front. In Cato's time it is almost certain seats
were not in use. Cp. Cic. de Am. 7, where stantes
= spectators.—-ulti7nu‚ sc. cavea spectac.

⁶propter: “ close by,'' used adverbially here as origin-
ally; derived from the obsolete adjective propia and
originally, propicer. So also prope, once an adverb,
was afterwards used as a preposition.

''ntayis—est z “perhaps enjoys them more (than age
does), but age though it views these (pleasures) from a
distance receives even 'positive pleasure, as much as it
has need of.’' Distinguish laetor, to show joy by a
calm cheersulness3 from delector, to be delighted by
recei= ing a positive pleasure.

§49.——¹at-—sunt : “still, how valuable is the following''—at,
see note 2, ξ 18.---icla = illud, introducing the clause

animum—vivere.—quanti, literally, “ of what value..’'
H. 402, ΙΙΙ. 1 ; Α. & G. 215, c.

'animum—vivere: “that the soul having served the
campaigns, so to speak, of lust, (and) the striving for
power, of strife (and) enmity, of all passions should
return within itself and live (as the saying is) with
itself.'’ Here the soul is compared to a veteran who
enjoys repose after the warsare is over. The Roman
soldiers after serving (mereri stipendia) sixteen years
were ranked among the emeriti, received exemption
from military servxce (vacatio) and were rewarded
with a bounty in lands or money or both.

 

 

