 

xxiv

Ruth.

First vam-
patgn.

His linc os
stutly. -

Tribunus
Militum

151 ιιιιιί w.)
'3- CB
Aedilis

148 13. C.
Fonsul

147 ιιιιι1 1⁴6
R. C.

 

{N‘ruoo U( ''1‘10N.

(Ιι) l’. (ἳιιιιΝι·;ι,ιιι.κι Svmo. 35 ΙΙΙΙῑ

¹P. comanus Scipio, born 1ss» Β. c.‚ was sei]
the son of Aemilius Paulus, the conqueror of soci
Perseus, but took the name of his adopted reti:
father, Scipio the Fllder. Under his father lu· vult
sorved his first campaign at Pydna. Literaturc :s cuc·
and philosophy, however, were to him mort· ιιιιιί
attractive th ιιι milita·‹uy e1;·l‹›1y. From his youth ἐξ Ὗ his
he was noted for his stromr attaclnnent to thc ιζ’ ιιιιιι

beck people and languagc‚ and he became the Ἰ curi
lcader in the Hellenistic movement that sprang„r Α Α Ιίιι“’
up in his day. The historiz m Polybius ιιιιι1 th( flat
philosopher Panaetius were ἰιιιιιι ntes of lus housc ζ , and
After servituras military tribune in Spain ιιιιι1 {33- had
in Africa, he returned to Rome and was chosen
aedile, and afterwards consul for two successive
years. Much against his will, he undertook tlu¹

war against Karthage, and is said to have wept ·

¹C

stu(

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

over the destruction of tho oneo haughty rival   tuis.
Censor ot' Rome. His censorship was marked hyan un. his
142134). successful attempt to reform thc state on triu¹ l’lfflj
'1¹:1ka Catonian principles. He brought the Spanigh tii&
Numantia wal· ἰο a close by taking Numantia. For his luae
[3313. c. open approval of the death of his kinsman, ζ. (ι.
Tiberius Gracchus, he incurred Ullleulat-ity, f *fat
and took no part in politics till an attempt was ΜΨ(
made to revive the Agrariau bill of Gracchus, ῗῑὲέῐῚ
After opposing it vehemeuffly he was escorted l›een
home from the Senate by an enthusiastic crowd ool<
of adluimm, Whoso intel-ests were threatened b). and
υιὲἶιῖἑι Ι its prov3isions but next mornino· he was found · «find
¹2¹ Ι b· dead m b* ‘l' Susplemn pulnted to Oarho as th«¹ - siiiii)
lsurnanled Aemilianus, fiom his sathcr' s ιιιιιιιυς Afric-anns sun„ ιΙΙ - at l

conquest. of Karthago, 14613. C ,Νιιιιιᾞιιιῖίιιιιη from tamin-v Νιιιιιιιιῐιιι, Ιῑῑῑ. ,

 

u C,=‹1ul ἸΙῐίιιιι maistin-r runs! him fu« ιιιι θ’· l 1Ιιιὶιικι

