  

50 Novas—cum. lv, [§12.

'²‹1uam qno morlo z quam eam modum quo. The clause
is relative, not interrogative, so that malsc is not put for
tulerit. So also Cic. pro Rosc. Amer. 30 : (luaeramus
ubi ntaleficiam esc, where ubi refers to an ibi suppressed.
Z. 553. The son referred to had the same name as his
father, and was consul in 213 Β. C. (Livy, 24, 44),
Cicero's affectionate mention of the death of the son of
Maximus prolgably called up sad feelings in his own
case. Cp. ἓ 5.

”est—laudatio, sc, funebris: “the eulogy pronounced at
the funeral is in (everyone's)hand,s'' 2'.e. iswell known.
The funeral oration was generally delivered from the
rostra by some near relative of the deceased. The cus-
tom is said to have been introduced by Poplicola in honor
of Brutus (Livy, 2, 47). The oration of Fabius is now
lost, although it was extant in the days of Cicero (Tusc.
35 70)-

4ιμιαιη r: ec eam. He :illudes to the Stoics, many of
whom wrote treatises on applying the principles of
philosophy to alleviate suffering. Fabius practically
illustrates the consolation which philosophy brings by
a living example. We can hardly help noticing that
the character here drawn of Fabius may well be applied
to Cato himself.

δίη luce—in oculis .· “in public—in his intercourse with,”
{ntith‘iiical to ἱηειιε domique: “in retirement and at
ome.

‘qai sermo .· ‘⁶ what conversational powers.” Notice, the
omission of the verb adds strength. For sermo, see
note 4, ξ 3.—--praecepta: ‘⁴ pithy sayings,” “ maxims.''

⁷quanm—augstcri.· “what an intimate acquaintance with
ancient history, (what) a knowledge of the ecclesias-
tical law.'' The jas anyto-tam was a code of rules by
which the college of augurs interpreted the auspices or
expressed the will of the gods. Distinguish jus, what
the law ordains or the obligations it imposes, from
lex, a written statute or ordinance.

⁸multae—-litterae .· “ his learning, too, was great, consider-
ing that he was a Roman.” The full construction is:
ocultae litterae (erant in Fabio), ut in homine Romano.
When ut adds an explanation,it may mean, ‘as you would
expect‚’ or ‘as you would not expect‚’ as here. The Ro·
mans had little literature before the conquest of Greece.
The early period of their history produced nothing
but a few chronicles and rude poetical experiments.

    
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
      
    
   

 

       
  

        
   
      

§13

  

 

