,ἐξ
:j
ε
i

'3 ,πῆ
ξ]
ἓ
ἰ
2 3}
„ ξι

 

104 noras—orma XX. [ἕ 72,

CHAPTER XX.

ξ 72.--¹certu3: “ fixed·' ,' as in certus cur ¹8, see note 7, ἓ 33.

2vivitar: “one lives ;‘’ see note 4, §632

Quoad—possis. ‘so long as one is able to perform and
maintain the requirements of his station.'' F or quoad ε
see H. 521, I.; A. & G. 328. For the person os
possis, see note on exerceas, 2, § 21.

*eae quo—fortior : “ whence it happens that old age is even
more spirited and eourageous than youth.”—animo-sus,
refers to the spirit and ardour of the soul ; forti-s, to the
strength and firmness of the mind.

‘’hoc—senectute ε “this is the meaning of that answer which
was given by Solon to the tyrant Pisistratus, when, to
the latter asking the question, on what hope, pray,
relying he so boldly withstood him, he is said to have
answeoed, ‘on old age.' ’'——eetz see note 1, ἓ 69.-ἰίίὶ
governed by respondisse. -—tamlem: in questions indi-
cates astonishment that the person addressed has gone
so far as to do or say what he has—sibi referring to
the same person as illi. M. 490.—senectute i. e. (se
fretum fecisse) senectute.

θεοαφηεηύαυὶὂε “cemented.'' Notice the omtaphors in
coaymentavic, conylucinavit, conylucinatio.

'‘ita—sit : “therefore it happens ‘'iat the brief remainder of
life ought neither to be eagerly coveted by the aged,
nor left without (sufficient) reason.”—reliqnam‚ either
an adjective used substantively or agreeing with tempus
understood. The Stoics held that a wise man may
reasonably withdraw from life in extreme cases, because
life may be less consistent with virtue than death.

&mussa—decedere: “without the order of our general,
that· is, God, to leave our post and station in life. '' The
same doctrine is given in Plato, Phaedo, ἓ 6, where
Socrates quotes Philolaus, the Pythogarean, ὡς ἑν τινι.
φρουρᾷ ε’σμὲν οἱ ἅνθρωποι και οὑ δεῖ δὴ ἑαυτὸν ἑκ ταί της
λυειν οὐδ’ ἀποδιδράσκειν, ‘ that we men are in a kind of
prison, and one ought neither to free himself from it
nor run away. ’ So also mole clearly, Cic. Somn. Scip.
3 : quare et cibi et piis omnibus rztc'nendus est animus
in custodia corporis, nec injussu ajam, a quo ille esc
vobis datus, eac hominum υἱεα mim-andum est, ne
manuslmmanam assiynatum a Deo defuyisse videam im'.
So also Cic. Tusc, 1, 30.

 

