No‘ri-:s-anP, x111. [5 45.

They were instituted sor religious purposes to keep up
the old tribal rites and ceremonies. In later times,
however, they degenerated into mere social or political
clubs and wielded great inssuence in Cicero's (lay, though
in Cato's time they still retained their original object.
The {prims os early English history, both religious and
secular‚ corresponded somewhat to the Roman soda-
titanes. Cato means here, new clubs were introduced,
and does not imply that they were originally instituted.
Cato was quaestor in Africa 204 B. C.

'sacris—accepti& sc, in civitatem: “when the Idaean
rites of the Great Mother were introduced (into the
state).” The worship of Cybele was introduced from
Pessinus in Phrygia into Rome in Cato's quaestorship,
and after its institution, the Μεῃαίεεὶα were esta·
blished B. C. 191 to commemorate it. (Livy 36, 36).
Mount Ida in Phrygia was the great centre of this·
worship.

4ἱ9ἱιιιν, resumes the sentence ending with sodales. Trans·
late : “ well then.'’ See note 4, ἓ 26.—omnino modice :
‘⁴ quite in a moderate way.''

“fervor—progredientez “ardor belonging to that time os

lise, and as age advanceS. ''-aetatis refers to juventutis ,·
qua to senectus.

‘aerae-nominaverant: “well, indeed, did our ancestors
call the reclining of friends at seasts ‘ a living together‚'
because it involved a common enjoyment of lise.''
With majores, sc, nata: so nata is frequently omitted
also with minores. The guests at a Roman feast
lay with the upper part of the body reclined on the

left arm, the head a little raised, and the back ’

supported by emmona—quia, with the subjunctive,
because the statement represents the opinion os the
speaker’s ancestors, not his own. See note on qual,
10, ἓ 3.

“amn-concenationem ε “at one time, ‘ adrinking together,'
at another, ‘ a dining together. ' '' - compotatio =
συμπόσιον ; σοησεηαιὶο-εσὺνδειπνου, The custom of
taking the principal meat of the day in public prevailed ·
extensively in ancient times among the Greeks. It
was observed in Sparta, Crete, Megara, and Corinth.
Aristotle (Pol. 7, 9) says it also was common among the
Oenotrians in Italy and at Carthage‚ and derived its

 

