       

100· nores—cnm. xxi. [ξ 77-§ 78.

      

Nummorum: the Stoies, Zeno, Cleanthes, and Chrysippus
are referred to, and perhaps Plato.

§78.--—¹chola⁸: “cottntrymen.'’ Pythagoras established his
school at Crotona in Magna Graecia (Southern Italy).

'qui esa-“nc = quippe qni esstote z ‘⁶ inasmuch as they were '':
see note 9, ᾗ· 7.

&telloneum “derived,'' as drops from a fountain. Thi..-
doctrine was held not only by Pythagoras, but also by
Plato, the Stoics and the Epicure-ans,

hlammasemimnaar—‹l‹.›.s«›ruissac z “the arguments, besides,
were conclusive to me, which Socrates delivered on
the immortality os the soul on the last day of his li'fe.”
These arglguments given below are taken from the
Phaedo o Plato.

⁶is-jeulicacns ε “a man so great that he was declared by
the oracle Apollo to be the wisest of all meust—qni z
tantus ut, governs the subjunctive os result. According
to Diogenes Laertius (ΙΙ. 37) the response of the oraclc
was : (ιυδρῶν ἁπάντων Σωκράτης σοφώτατος. Milton

(Pamdimf Requined, B. 1V.,) says of Socrates ε

      
       
   
     
     
         
         
      

Whom well inspired the oracle pronouneed
wisost ot men.

     

Thompson (Sena-ons, Wz'nler) t

   

Great moral Teacher‚ wisest of mankind.

   

‘sic—inventa: ‘⁴ os this Ι am persuaded, of this Ι feel as-
sured, since the mind has such activity, such memory
of the past and insight into the future, so many arts
requiring such knowledge, so many inventions.'' Cicero
elsewhere speaks of the mind as a substance capable of
very rapid movement.

macaeram—contineat : ‘⁴ that the nature of that which com-
prehende these thing5.''

‘'qaumque-relictam&: “and since the soul is in constant
activity‚ and has not any external cause (literally‚ first
principle) of motion, because it moves itself‚ (of this Ι
am persuaded) that it will not have any limit to its
motion, because it is not likely to leave itself.”-quia
introduces a statement of fact, while quod introduces
also a statement giving a cause, or reason. The argu·
ment is from Plato‘s Phaedo.

’quum—posse: “ and since the nature of the soul is un·
compounded, and has nothing mixed in it unlike itself

            
   
       
   
         
       

