noras—cnm». xi. [ξ 36-§ 38.

“decb-atio : “dotage ;” a metaphor taken from ploughing3
literally “going out os the furrow '' (de, lira).

ξ 37.-¹r0bastos= “stalwart.'’-tantam, sc, quantam habuit.

2νεῃεὸιιι expresses the supreme authority a Roman had in

early days over his household.—et—seneae: “though
he was both blind and old.''

διἠεὲηίιέυιε “οῐι the stretch ;'' see note on remissus, 3,
2 .

*auctoritatem ε influence acquired by some eminent quality,
as rank, integrity, wisdom ; imperium, generally
militarv authority, here refers to the power of lise and
death which a Roman had over bis children and slaves.
(See Livy 2, 41 3 8, 7).

⁵metuere: is to sear any danger imminent ς vereri, to be in
awe through respect sor authority.

ἓ 38. —155a-est : ‘⁴ sor it is on the following conditions that old
age is honourable‚ that it is its own defendet, that it
maintains its own independence, that it has passed into
bondage to nobody.”—emancipaca. When a Roman
wished to free a slave or to give full rights to his son,
he brought him before five citizens of the age of
puberty (puberes) and in their presence and in the
presence of another witness who held a pair of scales
(libripens), the purchaser tal-inq hold of the slave or
son says: I affirm that this man is mine according to
the rights os the Romans, and he is purchased with
this piece of money (aes) and brazen scales. He then
strikes the scales with the money and gives it to the
father. This was done thrice and the son was resold
to the father who finally manumitted him—mancipo
is said os the person who originally made the purchase,
emanclpo, of the father as having passed the owner-,skip
out of Ιιίε hands. The son was then freed from pater·
nal control (patria potestas) and was said to be his own
master (sui juris fieri: Livy, 7, 16).

2ειεηίἱε aliquid ε “ some characteristics of old age. ''—-quorl
—sequicurz ‘⁶ and he who follows this (maxim).''

³septimu8—manibu3 ι “ my seventh book of Antiquities is
well known.’' See note 3, ἓ 12. Some take the
meaning to be: “is on hand '' i. e. I am busy with,
but this would be septimum librum in manibus habeo ε
see note 8, 5 22. The Oriqines, in 7 Books‚ was
begun in 154 B. C. and finished in 150 B. C. This
work professed to deal with the early political aud

 

